# Autonomous Robot Arm
For this project, a Panda Emika robotic arm was programmed to pickup blocks and stack them in a designated zone. This was completed as a course final project in December 2022.

## Problem Statement
This project was a competition, in which 2 robot arms would compete every round to stack more blocks within a designed zone than their opponent. These blocks were split into 2 groups: static and dynamic blocks. The static blocks were positioned on a stationary surface around each robot's designated zone and were exclusive to each robot. In other words, each robot had a set of static blocks that could not be reached by the other robot. The dynamic blocks were positioned on a spinning turntable between the 2 robot arms. This set of blocks was reachable by both robots, which meant that they would need to compete to collect these blocks faster. Points were awarded based on the number of blocks placed and the height of the stack(s) within the designated zone. Static blocks were worth 1 point while dynamic blocks were worth 2 points. The duration of each round was 3 minutes.

## Solution Methodology
The underlying code for the robot arm was modeled as a finite state machine with 3 states: searching, grabbing, and placing. The robot began in the searching state, in which it would move to a suitable viewing point and use the mounted camera to search for the blocks. Once a desired block is located, it transitions into the grabbing state, in which is attempts to grab the block. If it successfully grabs the block, then it transitions into the placing state, in which it places the block in the designated zone. Once it stacks the block or if it fails to grab the block, the arm then transitions back to the searching state. The strategy was to first stack all of the static blocks in the designated zone. Once this task was complete, the robot would then attempt to retrieve and stack additional dynamic blocks on top of the static blocks. All blocks would be placed in a single stack as opposed to multiple stacks to maximize the amount of points awarded.

## Results
The initial version of the code had limitations and was only able to successfully stack the static blocks and to attempt (and fail) to stack 1 dynamic block within the allotted time frame. However, the final code exhibited significant improvements to speed and efficiency and was able to succussfully stack the static blocks and 4 dynamic blocks within the same amount of time. The code for this project can be reviewed in the code subdirectory. It is split into 4 parts: the controller that controls arm movements, the searcher that dictates the searching behavior, the grabber that dictates the grabbing behavior, and the placer that dictates the placing behavior. For a more detailed explanation of this project, please refer to [Autonomous Arm Report.pdf](https://github.com/cyoo28/autonomous-arm/blob/main/Autonomous%20Arm%20Report.pdf).
